Instructions for Form 1098

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

(Rev. January 2022)

Mortgage Interest Statement
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest information about developments related to
Form 1098 and its instructions, such as legislation
enacted after they were published, go to IRS.gov/
Form1098.

What's New

Continuous-use form and instructions. Form 1098
and these instructions have been converted from an
annual revision to continuous use. Both the form and
instructions will be updated as needed. For the most
recent version, go to IRS.gov/Form1098.

Reminders

General instructions. In addition to these specific
instructions, you should use the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns. Those
general instructions include information about the
following topics.
• Who must file.
• When and where to file.
• Electronic reporting.
• Corrected and void returns.
• Statements to recipients.
• Taxpayer identification numbers (TINs).
• Backup withholding.
• Penalties.
• Other general topics.
You can get the general instructions at General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns, available at
IRS.gov/1099GeneralInstructions, or IRS.gov/Form1098.
Online PDF fillable Copies B and C. To ease statement
furnishing requirements, Copies B and C are fillable online
in a PDF format, available at IRS.gov/Form1098. You can

complete these copies online for furnishing statements to
recipients and for retaining in your own files.

Specific Instructions

Use Form 1098, Mortgage Interest Statement, to report
mortgage interest (including points, defined later) of $600
or more you received during the year in the course of your
trade or business from an individual, including a sole
proprietor. Report only interest on a mortgage, defined
later.
File a separate Form 1098 for each mortgage. The
$600 threshold applies separately to each mortgage, so
you are not required to file Form 1098 for a mortgage on
which you have received less than $600 in interest, even if
an individual paid you over $600 in total on multiple
mortgages. You may, at your option, file Form 1098 to
report mortgage interest of less than $600, but if you do,
you are subject to the rules in these instructions.
If an overpayment of interest on an adjustable rate
mortgage or other mortgage was made in a prior year and
you refund (or credit) that overpayment, you may have to
file Form 1098 to report the refund (or credit) of the
overpayment. See Reimbursement of Overpaid Interest,
later.
Also use Form 1098 to report mortgage insurance
premiums (MIP) of $600 or more you received during the
calendar year in the course of your trade or business from
an individual, including a sole proprietor, but only if
section 163(h)(3)(E) applies. See the instructions for Box
5. Mortgage Insurance Premiums, later.

Exceptions

You need not file Form 1098 for interest received from a
corporation, partnership, trust, estate, association, or
company (other than a sole proprietor) even if an
individual is a co-borrower and all the trustees,
beneficiaries, partners, members, or shareholders of the
payer of record are individuals.

Obligation Classification Table
IF an obligation is...

THEN...

incurred after 1987

it is a mortgage if real property that is located inside or outside the United States
secures all or part of the obligation.1

incurred after 1984 but before 1988

it is a mortgage only if secured primarily by real property.

in existence on December 31, 1984

it is not a mortgage if, at the time the obligation was incurred, the interest recipient
reasonably classified the obligation as other than a mortgage, real property loan, real
estate loan, or other similar type of obligation.2

1

This applies even though the interest recipient classifies the obligation as other than a mortgage, for example, as a commercial loan.

For example, if an obligation incurred in 1983 was secured by real property, but the interest recipient reasonably classified the obligation as a commercial loan
because the proceeds were used to finance the borrower's business, the obligation is not considered a mortgage and reporting is not required. However, it is not
reasonable to classify those obligations as other than mortgages for reporting purposes if over half the obligations in a class established by the interest recipient are
primarily secured by real property.
2

Dec 29, 2021

Cat. No. 27977Q

Mortgage Defined

tenant-stockholders' proportionate share of interest
described in section 216(a)(2). This rule applies only to
tenant-stockholders who are individuals and from whom
the cooperative has received at least $600 of interest
during the year. See the TIP under box 1, later.

A mortgage is any obligation secured by real property.
Use the Obligation Classification Table to determine
which obligations are mortgages.

Real property is land and generally anything built on it,
growing on it, or attached to the land. Among other things,
real property includes a manufactured home with a
minimum living space of 400 square feet and a minimum
width of more than 102 inches and which is of a kind
customarily used at a fixed location. See section 25(e)
(10).

Collection agents. Generally, if you receive reportable
interest payments (other than points) on behalf of
someone else and you are the first person to receive the
interest, such as a servicing bank collecting payments for
a lender, you must file this form. Enter your name,
address, TIN, and telephone number in the recipient entity
area. You must file this form even though you do not
include the interest received in your income but you
merely transfer it to another person. If you wish, you may
enter the name of the person for whom you collected the
interest in box 10. The person for whom you collected the
interest need not file Form 1098.
However, there is an exception to this rule for any
period that (a) the first person to receive or collect the
interest does not have the information needed to report on
Form 1098, and (b) the person for whom the interest is
received or collected would receive the interest in its trade
or business if the interest were paid directly to such
person. If (a) and (b) apply, the person on whose behalf
the interest is received or collected is required to report on
Form 1098. If interest is received or collected on behalf of
another person other than an individual, such person is
presumed to receive the interest in a trade or business.

If the loan is not secured by any real property, you are
not required to file Form 1098. However, the borrower
may be entitled to a deduction for qualified residence
interest, such as in the case of a loan for a boat. The boat
must have sleeping space, cooking facilities, and toilet
facilities. The borrower must use the boat as a home.
Lines of credit and credit card obligations. Interest
(other than points) received on any mortgage that is in the
form of a line of credit or credit card obligation is
reportable regardless of how you classified the obligation.
A borrower incurs a line of credit or credit card obligation
when the borrower first has the right to borrow against the
line of credit or credit card, whether or not the borrower
actually borrows an amount at that time.

Who Must File

File this form if you are engaged in a trade or business
and, in the course of such trade or business, you receive
from an individual $600 or more of mortgage interest (or
$600 or more of MIP, if section 163(h)(3)(E) applies for
the reporting year) on any one mortgage during the
calendar year. See the instructions for box 5, later, for MIP
reporting requirements. You are not required to file this
form if the interest is not received in the course of your
trade or business. For example, you hold the mortgage on
your former personal residence. The buyer makes
mortgage payments to you. You are not required to file
Form 1098.

Foreign interest recipient. If you are not a U.S. person,
you must file Form 1098 if the interest is received in the
United States. A U.S. person is a citizen or resident of the
United States, a domestic partnership or corporation, or a
nonforeign estate or trust. If the interest is received
outside the United States, you must file Form 1098 if (a)
you are a controlled foreign corporation, or (b) at least
50% of your gross income from all sources for the 3-year
period ending with the close of the tax year preceding the
receipt of interest (or for such part of the period as you
were in existence) was effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States.

For information about who must file to report points,
see Who must report points, later.

Designation agreement. An interest recipient, including
a recipient of points, can designate a qualified person to
file Form 1098 and to provide a statement to the payer of
record.
A qualified person is either (a) a trade or business in
which the interest recipient is under common control as
specified in Regulations section 1.414(c)-2, or (b) a
designee, named by the lender of record or by a qualified
person, who either was involved in the original loan
transaction or is a subsequent purchaser of the loan.
A lender of record is the person who, at the time the
loan is made, is named as the lender on the loan
documents and whose right to receive payment from the
payer of record is secured by the payer of record's
principal residence. Even if the lender of record intends to
sell or otherwise transfer the loan to a third party after the
close of the transaction, such intention does not change
who is the lender of record.
The agreement must be in writing, identify the
mortgage(s) and calendar years for which the qualified
person must report, and be signed by the designator and
the designee. A designee may report points on Form 1098

Not in the lending business. If you receive mortgage
interest of $600 or more in the course of your trade or
business, you are subject to the requirement to file Form
1098, even if you are not in the business of lending
money. For example, if you are a real estate developer
and you provide financing to an individual to buy a home
in your subdivision, and that home is security for the
financing, you are subject to this reporting requirement.
However, if you are a physician not engaged in any other
business and you lend money to an individual to buy your
home, you are not subject to this reporting requirement
because you did not receive the interest in the course of
your trade or business as a physician.
Governmental unit. A governmental unit (or any
subsidiary agency) receiving mortgage interest from an
individual of $600 or more must file this form.
Cooperative housing corporation. A cooperative
housing corporation is an interest recipient and must file
Form 1098 to report an amount received from its
tenant-stockholders that represents the
-2-

Instructions for Form 1098 (Rev. 01-2022)

the homeowner that the amounts reported on the Form
1098 are overstated because they include governmental
subsidy payments. State housing finance agencies
receiving funds allocated from the HFA Hardest Hit Fund
may comply with the mortgage interest reporting
requirement by reporting payments on either Form
1098-MA, Mortgage Assistance Payments, available at
IRS.gov/Form1098MA, or on the statement described in
section 2.04 of Rev. Proc. 2011-55, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2011-47_IRB#RP-2011-55. For more
information, see Notice 2017-40, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2017-32_IRB#NOT-2017-40, amplified and modified by
Notice 2018-63, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2018-34_IRB#NOT-2018-63.

(as having been paid directly by the payer of record) only
if the designation agreement contains the designator's
representation that it did not lend such amount to the
payer of record as part of the overall transaction. The
agreement need not be filed with the IRS, but the
designator must keep a copy of it for 4 years after the
close of the year in which the loan is made.
A designated qualified person is subject to any
applicable penalties as if it were the interest recipient.
Thus, a designator is relieved from liability for any
applicable penalties.

Nonresident Alien Interest Payer

You must file Form 1098 to report interest paid by a
nonresident alien only if all or part of the security for the
mortgage is real property located in the United States.

Seller Payments

Do not report in box 1 of Form 1098 any interest paid by a
seller on a purchaser's/borrower's mortgage, such as on a
“buy-down” mortgage. For example, if a real estate
developer deposits an amount in escrow and tells you to
draw on that escrow account to pay interest on the
borrower's mortgage, do not report in box 1 the interest
received from that escrow account. Also, do not report in
box 1 any lump sum paid by a real estate developer to pay
interest on a purchaser's/borrower's mortgage. However,
if you wish, you may use box 10 to report to the payer of
record any interest paid by the seller. See Points next for
information about reporting seller-paid points in box 6.

Report the interest based on the following.
• If the interest is paid within the United States, you must
request from the payer the applicable Form W-8
(withholding certificate) as described in Regulations
section 1.1441-1(e)(1).
• If the interest is paid outside the United States, you
must satisfy the documentary evidence standard
described in Regulations section 1.6049-5(c).

Payer of Record

The payer of record is the individual carried on your books
and records as the principal borrower. If your books and
records do not indicate which borrower is the principal
borrower, you must designate one.

Points

You must report certain points paid for the purchase of the
payer of record's principal residence on Form 1098. You
must report points if the points, plus other interest on the
mortgage, are $600 or more. For example, if a borrower
pays points of $300 and other mortgage interest of $300,
the lender has received $600 of mortgage interest and
must file Form 1098.

If you permit a subsequent purchaser of the property to
assume the loan without releasing the first purchaser from
personal liability, the subsequent purchaser is the payer of
record. Such subsequent purchaser's name, address, and
TIN must appear on Form 1098.
Multiple borrowers. Even though there may be more
than one borrower on the mortgage, you are required to
prepare Form 1098 only for the payer of record, and only if
such payer of record is an individual, showing the total
interest received on the mortgage. Even if an individual is
a co-borrower, no Form 1098 is required unless the payer
of record is also an individual.

Report the total points on Form 1098 for the calendar
year of closing regardless of the accounting method used
to report points for federal income tax purposes.
Who must report points. The lender of record or a
qualified person must file Form 1098 to report all points
paid by the payer of record in connection with the
purchase of the principal residence. If a designation
agreement is in effect for a mortgage, only the person
designated in the agreement must file Form 1098 to report
all points on that mortgage. See Designation agreement,
earlier.
Amounts received directly or indirectly by a mortgage
broker are treated as points to the same extent they would
be treated as points if paid to and retained by the lender of
record. The lender of record must report those points paid
to a mortgage broker.

Payments by Third Party

Report all interest received on the mortgage as received
from the borrower, except as explained under Seller
Payments, later. For example, if the borrower's mother
makes payments on the mortgage, the interest received
from the mother is reportable on Form 1098 as received
from the borrower.
However, do not report mortgage interest received
from any governmental unit (or any subsidiary agency).
For example, do not report any interest received as
housing assistance payments from the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on mortgages
insured under section 235 of the National Housing Act.

Reportable points. Report on Form 1098 points that
meet all the following conditions.
1. They are clearly designated on the Settlement
Statement (Form HUD-1) or HUD Closing Disclosure as
points; for example, “loan origination fee” (including
amounts for VA and FHA loans), “loan discount,”
“discount points,” or “points.”
2. They are computed as a percentage of the stated
principal loan amount.

The IRS will not assert information reporting penalties
against mortgage servicers that report as interest
mortgage assistance payments received under a state
program funded by the Housing Finance Agency
Innovative Fund for the Hardest Hit Housing Markets
(HFA Hardest Hit Fund) if the mortgage servicer notifies
Instructions for Form 1098 (Rev. 01-2022)

-3-

• Are clearly designated on the loan documents as points
incurred in connection with the loan, such as loan
origination fees, loan discount, discount points, or points;
• Are computed as a percentage of the stated principal
loan amount;
• Conform to an established business practice of
charging points in the area where the loan is issued and
do not exceed the amount generally charged in the area;
• Are paid in connection with a loan incurred by the payer
of record to construct (or refinance construction of) a
residence that is to be used, when completed, as the
principal residence of the payer of record;
• Are paid directly by the payer of record; and
• Are not allocable to an amount of principal in excess of
$750,000, or $1 million if you know that the written binding
contract exception applies.
Amounts paid to refinance a loan to construct a
residence are not points to the extent they are allocable to
debt that exceeds the debt incurred to construct the
residence.

3. They are charged under an established business
practice of charging points in the area where the loan was
issued and do not exceed the amount generally charged
in that area.
4. They are paid for the acquisition of the payer of
record's principal residence, and the loan is secured by
that residence. You may rely on a signed written
statement from the payer of record that states that the
proceeds of the loan are for the purchase of the payer of
record's principal residence.
5. They are paid directly by the payer of record. Points
are paid directly if either (a) or (b) below applies.
a. The payer of record provides funds that were not
borrowed from the lender of record for this purpose as
part of the overall transaction. The funds may include
down payments, escrow deposits, earnest money applied
at closing, and other funds actually paid over by the payer
of record at or before closing.
b. The seller pays points on behalf of the payer of
record. Points paid by the seller to the interest recipient on
behalf of the payer of record are treated as paid to the
payer of record and then paid directly by the payer of
record to the interest recipient.

Prepaid Interest

Report prepaid interest (other than points) only in the year
in which it properly accrues.
Example. Interest received on December 20, of the
current year, that accrues by December 31, of the current
year, but is not due until January 31, of the following year,
is reportable on the current year Form 1098.

Report points paid under items 5a and 5b on the payer
of record's Form 1098 in box 6.
Exceptions. Do not report as points on Form 1098
amounts paid:
• For loans to improve a principal residence;
• For loans to purchase or improve a residence that is not
the payer of record's principal residence, such as a
second home, vacation, investment, or trade or business
property, even though the borrower may be entitled to
amortize points paid for the purchase of a second home,
vacation home, etc., and deduct them over the life of the
loan;
• For a home equity or line of credit loan, even if secured
by the principal residence;
• For refinancing (see Construction loans, later),
including a loan to refinance a debt owed by the borrower
under a land contract, a contract for deed, or similar forms
of seller financing;
• In lieu of items ordinarily stated separately on the Form
HUD-1, such as appraisal fees, inspection fees, title fees,
attorney fees, and property taxes; and
• To acquire a principal residence to the extent the points
are allocable to an amount of principal in excess of the
amount treated as acquisition indebtedness. Generally,
the amount treated as acquisition indebtedness cannot
exceed $750,000, but it may be up to $1 million if the
borrower entered into a written binding contract before
December 15, 2017, to close on the purchase before
January 1, 2018, and purchased the residence before
April 1, 2018 (the "written binding contract exception"). If
you know that the written binding contract exception
applies, report points that are allocable to an amount of
principal up to $1 million.

Exception. Interest received during the current year that
will properly accrue in full by January 15 of the following
year may be considered received in the current year, at
your option, and is reportable on Form 1098 for the
current year. However, if any part of an interest payment
accrues after January 15, then only the amount that
properly accrues by December 31 of the current year is
reportable on Form 1098 for the current year. For
example, if you receive a payment of interest that accrues
for the period December 20 through January 20, you
cannot report any of the interest that accrues after
December 31 for the current year. You must report the
interest that accrues after December 31 on Form 1098 for
the following year.

Prepaid Mortgage Insurance

Except for amounts paid to the Department of Veterans
Affairs or the Rural Housing Service, payments allocable
to periods after 2007 are treated as paid in the periods to
which they are allocable.

The Treasury Department has issued regulations for
allocating prepaid qualified mortgage insurance
premiums. Regulations section 1.163-11 applies to
prepaid qualified mortgage insurance premiums paid or
accrued on or after January 1, 2011, provided by the
Federal Housing Administration or private mortgage
insurers. For regulations applicable before January 1,
2011, see Regulations section 1.163-11T.

Reimbursement of Overpaid Interest

Construction loans. Amounts paid on a loan to
construct a residence (construction loan) or to refinance a
loan incurred to construct a residence are reportable on
Form 1098 as points if they:

You are required to report reimbursements of overpaid
interest aggregating $600 or more to a payer of record on
Form 1098. You are not required to report
reimbursements of overpaid interest aggregating less
than $600 unless you are otherwise required to file Form
-4-

Instructions for Form 1098 (Rev. 01-2022)

of record, see part M in the current General Instructions
for Certain Information Returns.

1098. That is, if you did not receive at least $600 of
mortgage interest during the year of reimbursement from
the person to whom you made the reimbursement, you
are not required to file Form 1098 merely to report a
reimbursement of less than $600. However, you may
report any reimbursement of overpaid interest that you are
not otherwise required to report, but if you do, you are
subject to the rules in these instructions.

Truncating payer's/borrower's TIN on payee statements. Pursuant to Regulations section 301.6109-4, all
filers of this form may truncate a payee’s TIN (social
security number (SSN), individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number
(ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN)) on payee
statements. Truncation is not allowed on any documents
the filer files with the IRS. A recipient's/lender's TIN may
not be truncated on any form. See part J in the current
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns for
additional information.

The reimbursement must be reported on Form 1098 for
the year in which the reimbursement is made. No change
should be made to the prior year Form 1098 because of
this reimbursement. Report the total reimbursement even
if it is for overpayments made in more than 1 year.

Recipient's/Lender's Name, Address, and
Telephone Number Box

To be reportable, the reimbursement must be a refund
or credit of mortgage interest received in a prior year that
was required to be reported for that prior year by any
interest recipient on Form 1098. Only the person who
makes the reimbursement is required to report it on Form
1098. For example, if you bought a mortgage on which
interest was overpaid in a prior year, you made a
reimbursement of the overpaid interest, and the previous
mortgage holder was required to report mortgage interest
on Form 1098 in the prior year, you must file Form 1098 to
report the reimbursement because you are the one
making the reimbursement.
Example. In the previous year, you received $5,000 of
mortgage interest from the payer/borrower and reported
that amount on Form 1098 for the previous year. In the
current year, you determined that interest due on the
mortgage for the previous year was $4,500, and the
payer/borrower had overpaid $500. You refunded the
$500 overpayment to the payer/borrower in the current
year. If you received $600 or more of interest on the
mortgage from the payer/borrower in the current year, you
must report the $500 refund in box 4 of the current year
Form 1098. No change to the previous year Form 1098 is
required. If, instead of refunding the $500 overpayment,
you credited the payer’s/borrower's current year mortgage
interest payments due, $500 is still shown in box 4, and
the interest received from the payer/borrower in the
current year shown in box 1 must include the $500 credit.

Enter the name, address, and telephone number of the
filer of Form 1098. Use this same name and address on
Form 1096.

Payer's/Borrower's Name and Address Boxes

Enter the name and address, in the appropriate boxes, of
the person who paid the interest (payer of record).
Be careful to enter the recipient's and payer's

TIP information in the proper boxes.

Account Number

The account number is required if you have multiple
accounts for a payer/borrower for whom you are filing
more than one Form 1098. Additionally, the IRS
encourages you to designate an account number for all
Forms 1098 that you file. See part L in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Box 1. Mortgage Interest Received From
Payer(s)/Borrower(s)

Enter the interest (not including points) received on the
mortgage from borrowers during the calendar year.
Include interest on a mortgage, a home equity loan, or a
line of credit or credit card loan secured by real property.
Do not include government subsidy payments, seller
payments, or prepaid interest that does not meet the
exception explained under Prepaid Interest, earlier.
Interest includes prepayment penalties and late charges
unless the late charges are for a specific mortgage
service.

Overpayment and reimbursement in same year. If
you reimburse interest in the same year it is overpaid, do
not report the overpayment on Form 1098 as interest
received during the year or as a reimbursement of
overpaid interest. For example, if the borrower paid
$5,000 and you reimbursed $500 of that amount in the
current year, enter $4,500 in box 1 as interest paid by the
borrower. Do not enter the $500 reimbursement in box 4.

A cooperative housing corporation that receives

TIP any cash part of a patronage dividend from the

National Consumer Cooperative Bank must
reduce the interest to be reported on each
tenant-stockholder's Form 1098 by a proportionate
amount of the cash payment in the year the cooperative
receives the cash payment. See Rev. Proc. 94-40, 1994-1
C.B. 711.

Interest on reimbursement. A financial institution (or its
middleman) that pays interest of $10 or more on the
reimbursement must report that interest (under section
6049) on Form 1099-INT, Interest Income. Others that pay
$600 or more of such interest in the course of their trade
or business must report that interest (under section 6041)
on Form 1099-INT. Do not include such interest on Form
1098.

Box 2. Outstanding Mortgage Principal

Enter the amount of outstanding principal on the mortgage
as of January 1, of the current year. If you originated the
mortgage in the current year, enter the mortgage principal
as of the date of origination. If you acquired the mortgage

Statements to Payers of Record

If you are required to file Form 1098, you must provide a
statement to the payer of record. For more information
about the requirement to furnish a statement to the payer

Instructions for Form 1098 (Rev. 01-2022)

-5-

you did not complete box 7, enter the street address
(including the apartment number) of the property securing
the mortgage. Immediately below the street address,
enter the city or town; state or province; country; and ZIP
or foreign postal code of the property securing the
mortgage.

in the current year, enter the outstanding mortgage
principal as of the date of acquisition.

Box 3. Mortgage Origination Date

Enter the date of the origination of the mortgage. If you
acquired this mortgage, do not enter the date of
acquisition (see Box 11, later). Enter the date the
mortgage originated with the original lender.

If the property securing the mortgage has no address,
enter the property’s jurisdiction and the property’s
Assessor Parcel Number(s) (APN), as indicated in the
examples below. Synonyms for the APN include the
Assessor’s Identification Number (AIN), the Property
Identification Number (PIN), the Property Account
Number, and the Tax Account Number. Examples:

Box 4. Refund of Overpaid Interest

Enter the total refund or credit of a prior year(s)
overpayment of interest. See Reimbursement of Overpaid
Interest, earlier.

Box 5. Mortgage Insurance Premiums

Washtenaw County, MI
VV-WW-XX-YYY-ZZZ

To see if the applicability of this provision has
been extended, and therefore reporting is
CAUTION required, go to IRS.gov/Form1098.

!

Jackson County, MO
AA-BBB-CC-DD-EE-F-GG-HHH

If section 163(h)(3)(E) applies for the tax year being
reported, enter the total premiums of $600 or more paid
(received) for the tax year being reported, including
prepaid premiums, for qualified mortgage insurance.
Qualified mortgage insurance is mortgage insurance
under a contract issued after December 31, 2006, and
provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
Federal Housing Administration, or the Rural Housing
Service (or their successor organizations), and private
mortgage insurance, as defined by section 2 of the
Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 (as in effect on
December 20, 2006).
Receipt of $600 or more of MIP is determined on a
mortgage-by-mortgage basis. Do not aggregate MIP
received on all of the mortgages of an individual to
determine whether the $600 threshold is met. You do not
need to report MIP of less than $600 received on a
mortgage, even though you receive a total of $600 or
more of MIP on all of the mortgages for an individual in a
calendar year.
See Prepaid Mortgage Insurance, earlier, for the tax
treatment of prepaid MIP.

Nashua, NH
XX-YY
If an APN or other such identifying number needed to
complete box 8 is not readily available for the property
(having no address) securing the mortgage, enter a
description of the property, using metes and bounds if
available, or other descriptive language to properly
identify the property. You may abbreviate as necessary.
The following statement applies to boxes 7 and 8.
If there is more than one property securing the
CAUTION mortgage, you may report the address of any one
of the properties using boxes 7 and 8 and enter in box 9
the total number of properties securing the mortgage.

!

Box 9. Number of Mortgaged Properties

If there is more than one property securing the mortgage,
enter in box 9 the total number of properties secured by
this mortgage. If only one property secures the mortgage,
you may leave this box blank. For purposes of
determining the number of properties, you may consider
any single physical street address, 911 address, lot,
parcel, APN, or tract of land to be one property.

Box 6. Points Paid on Purchase of Principal
Residence

Enter points paid on the purchase of the payer of record's
principal residence. For an explanation of reportable
points, see Reportable points, earlier.

Box 10. Other

Enter any other item you wish to report to the payer, such
as real estate taxes, insurance paid from escrow, or, if you
are a collection agent, the name of the person for whom
you collected the interest.

Box 7. Address of Property Securing Mortgage

If the address of the property securing the mortgage is the
same as the payer’s/borrower’s mailing address, either
check the box or leave the box blank and complete box 8.
If the address or description of the property securing the
mortgage is not the same as the payer’s/borrower’s
mailing address, complete box 8.

Box 11. Mortgage Acquisition Date

If you acquired the mortgage in the calendar year, enter
the date of acquisition. Otherwise, leave this box blank.

Box 8. Address or Description of Property
Securing Mortgage

If the address of the property securing the mortgage is not
the same as the payer’s/borrower’s mailing address, or

-6-

Instructions for Form 1098 (Rev. 01-2022)

