2024

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Instructions for Forms
1098-E and 1098-T
Student Loan Interest Statement and Tuition Statement
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code
unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest information about developments related to
Forms 1098-E and 1098-T and their instructions, such as
legislation enacted after they were published, go to
IRS.gov/Form1098E or IRS.gov/Form1098T.

Reminders
General instructions. In addition to these specific
instructions, you should also use the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns. Those
general instructions include information about the
following topics.
• Who must file.
• When and where to file.
• Electronic reporting.
• Corrected and void returns.
• Statements to recipients.
• Taxpayer identification numbers (TINs).
• Backup withholding.
• Penalties.
• Other general topics.
You can get the General Instructions for Certain
Information Returns at IRS.gov/1099GeneralInstructions
or go to IRS.gov/Form1098E or IRS.gov/Form1098T.
Online fillable Copy B. To ease statement furnishing
requirements, Copy B of Forms 1098-E and 1098-T are
fillable online in a PDF format, available at IRS.gov/
Form1098E or IRS.gov/Form1098T. You can complete
these copies online for furnishing statements to recipients.
Form W-9S. You may use Form W-9S, Request for
Student’s or Borrower’s Taxpayer Identification Number
and Certification, to obtain the student’s or borrower’s
name, address, TIN, and student loan certification to be
used when filing Form 1098-E or 1098-T. Use of Form
W-9S is optional; you may collect the information using
your own forms, such as admission or enrollment forms, or
financial aid applications. You may collect the student’s or
borrower’s information on paper or electronically.
Electronic submission of Form W-9S. An
educational institution, insurer, or lender may establish a
system for students and borrowers to submit Form W-9S
electronically, including by fax. Generally, the electronic
system must:
1. Ensure the information received is the information
sent and document all occasions of user access that
result in the submission,

Oct 2, 2023

2. Make reasonably certain the person accessing the
system and submitting the form is the person identified on
Form W-9S,
3. Provide you with the same information as the paper
Form W-9S, and
4. Be able to supply a hard copy of the electronic
Form W-9S if the Internal Revenue Service requests it.
Also, if an electronic Form W-9S is used to obtain the
borrower’s certification that all the loan proceeds are used
solely to pay qualified higher education expenses, your
electronic system must require, as the final entry in the
submission, an electronic signature by the borrower
whose name is on Form W-9S. The signature
authenticates and verifies the submission. See
Announcement 98-27, which is on page 30 of Internal
Revenue Bulletin 1998-15 at IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/
irb98-15.pdf.

Specific Instructions for Form 1098-E

File Form 1098-E, Student Loan Interest Statement, if you
receive student loan interest of $600 or more from an
individual during the year in the course of your trade or
business.
The $600 threshold applies to each borrower
regardless of the number of student loans obtained by that
borrower. However, you may file a separate Form 1098-E
for each student loan of the borrower, or you may file one
Form 1098-E for the interest from all student loans of the
borrower.
Who must file. File Form 1098-E if you are a financial
institution, governmental unit (or any of its subsidiary
agencies), educational institution, or any other person
who receives student loan interest of $600 or more from
an individual during the year in the course of your trade or
business.
If more than one person has a connection with the loan,
only the first person to receive the interest payment must
file Form 1098-E. For example, a loan service or collection
agent receiving payments on behalf of the lender must file.
Qualified student loan. To be reportable for 2024, a
student loan must be either:
• Subsidized, guaranteed, financed, or otherwise treated
as a student loan under a program of the federal, state, or
local government, or of a postsecondary educational
institution; or
• Certified by the borrower as a student loan incurred
solely to pay qualified higher education expenses. You
may use Form W-9S to obtain the certification.

Cat. No. 27990J

Revolving accounts. Report interest paid on revolving
accounts, such as credit card accounts, only if the
borrower certifies that all the loan proceeds are solely
used to pay qualified higher education expenses. You do
not have to verify the borrower’s actual use of the funds.
Do not report interest on mixed use loans.
Loans under qualified plans. Do not report interest on
loans made under a qualified employer plan, as defined in
section 72(p)(4), or under a contract purchased under a
qualified employer plan within the meaning of section
72(p)(5).
Additional information. For more information about
reporting student loan interest, see Regulations section
1.6050S-3.
Statements to borrowers. If you are required to file
Form 1098-E, you must provide a statement or acceptable
substitute, on paper or electronically, to the borrower. For
more information about the requirements to furnish a
statement to the borrower, see part M in the current
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
Electronic delivery of Form 1098-E. Educational
institutions, insurers, and lenders may present the option
to consent to receive Form 1098-E electronically as part of
a global “Consent To Do Business Electronically,”
combining consent for electronic delivery of Form 1098-E
along with other institutional student business functions
such as admissions, registration, billings, and direct
deposits.
The global consent process must meet all the consent,
disclosure, format, notice, and access period
requirements for electronic furnishing of Forms 1098-E in
accordance with the applicable regulations. For more
information about the requirements to furnish a statement
to each student, see part M in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
Truncating borrower’s TIN on payee statements.
Pursuant to Regulations section 301.6109-4, all filers of
Form 1098-E may truncate a borrower’s TIN (social
security number (SSN), individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number
(ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN)) on payee
statements. Truncation is not allowed on any documents
the filer files with the IRS. A recipient’s/lender’s TIN may
not be truncated on any form. See part J in the current
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
Recipient’s/lender’s name, address, and telephone
number box. Enter the name, address, and telephone
number of the filer of Form 1098-E. Use this same name
and address on Form 1096, Annual Summary and
Transmittal of U.S. Information Returns.
Account number. The account number is required if you
have multiple accounts for a recipient for whom you are
filing more than one Form 1098-E. Additionally, the IRS
encourages you to designate an account number for all
Forms 1098-E that you file. See part L in the current
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

2

Box 1. Student Loan Interest Received by
Lender

Enter the interest you received on a student loan(s) during
the calendar year. For loans made on or after September
1, 2004, you are required to include in box 1 payments of
interest as described in Regulations section 1.221-1(f).
Under that regulation, interest includes capitalized interest
and loan origination fees that represent charges for the
use or forbearance of money. See Regulations section
1.221-1(f).

Box 2. Checkbox

Check this box if loan origination fees and/or capitalized
interest are not reported in box 1 for loans made before
September 1, 2004.

Specific Instructions for Form 1098-T
File Form 1098-T, Tuition Statement, if you are an eligible
educational institution. You must file for each student you
enroll and for whom a reportable transaction is made.
Also, if you are an insurer, file Form 1098-T for each
individual to whom you made reimbursements or refunds
of qualified tuition and related expenses.

Exceptions. You do not have to file Form 1098-T or
furnish a statement for:
• Courses for which no academic credit is offered, even if
the student is otherwise enrolled in a degree program;
• Nonresident alien students, unless requested by the
student;
• Students whose qualified tuition and related expenses
are entirely waived or paid entirely with scholarships; and
• Students for whom you do not maintain a separate
financial account and whose qualified tuition and related
expenses are covered by a formal billing arrangement
between an institution and the student’s employer or a
governmental entity, such as the Department of Veterans
Affairs or the Department of Defense.
Who must file. You must file Form 1098-T if you are an
eligible educational institution. An eligible educational
institution that is a governmental unit, or an agency or
instrumentality of a governmental unit, is subject to the
reporting requirements of Form 1098-T. A designated
officer or employee of the governmental entity must satisfy
the reporting requirements of Form 1098-T.
If another person receives or collects payments of
qualified tuition and related expenses on your behalf, the
other person must file Form 1098-T. However, if the other
person does not possess the information necessary to
comply with the reporting requirements of Form 1098-T,
then you must satisfy the reporting requirements of Form
1098-T.
Also, if you are an insurer engaged in a trade or
business of making refunds or reimbursements of
qualified tuition and related expenses, you are required to
file Form 1098-T. See the instructions for box 10, later.
Eligible educational institution. An eligible educational
institution is a college, university, vocational school, or
other postsecondary educational institution that is
described in section 481 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 as in effect on August 5, 1997, and that is eligible to
Instructions for Forms 1098-E and 1098-T (2024)

participate in the Department of Education’s student aid
programs. This includes most accredited public, nonprofit,
and private postsecondary institutions.
Qualified tuition and related expenses. Qualified
tuition and related expenses are tuition, fees, and course
materials required for a student to be enrolled at or attend
an eligible educational institution.
The following are not qualified tuition and related
expenses.
• Amounts paid for any course or other education
involving sports, games, or hobbies, unless the course or
other education is part of the student’s degree program or
is taken to acquire or improve job skills.
• Charges and fees for room, board, insurance, medical
expenses (including student health fees), transportation,
and similar personal, living, or family expenses.
Academic credit. Academic credit is credit awarded by
an eligible educational institution for the completion of
course work leading to a postsecondary degree,
certificate, or other recognized postsecondary educational
credential.
Example. Sarah, a medical doctor, takes a course at
University X’s medical school. Sarah takes the course to
fulfill Montana’s licensing requirement that medical
doctors attend continuing medical education courses
each year. Sarah is not enrolled in a degree program at
University X and takes the medical course through
University X’s continuing professional education program.
University X does not award Sarah credit toward a
postsecondary degree on an academic transcript for the
completion of the course but gives Sarah a certificate of
attendance upon completion. University X is not required
to file Form 1098-T for the course taken by Sarah.
Academic period. You must file Form 1098-T for each
student who is enrolled in your institution for any academic
period (for example, semester, trimester, or quarter) in
2024, but see Exceptions, earlier. Determine your
enrollment for each period under your own rules or use
one of the following dates.
• 30 days after the first day of the academic period.
• A date during the period when enrollment data must be
collected for purposes of the Integrated Post Secondary
Education Data System administered by the Department
of Education.
• A date during the period when you must report
enrollment data to the state, to your governing board, or to
some other external governing body.
Additional information. For more information about
reporting on Form 1098-T, see Regulations section
1.6050S-1. Also see Notice 2006-72, 2006-36 I.R.B. 363,
available at IRS.gov/irb/2006-36_IRB#NOT-2006-72, for
guidance in a question-and-answer format on the
information reporting requirements for Form 1098-T.
Statements to students. If you are required to file Form
1098-T, you must furnish a statement or acceptable
substitute, on paper or electronically, to the student.
Electronic delivery of Form 1098-T. Educational
institutions may present the option to consent to receive
Form 1098-T electronically as part of a global “Consent To
Do Business Electronically,” combining consent for
Instructions for Forms 1098-E and 1098-T (2024)

electronic delivery of Form 1098-T along with other
institutional student business functions such as
admissions, registration, billings, and direct deposits.
The global consent process must meet all the consent,
disclosure, format, notice, and access period
requirements for electronic furnishing of Forms 1098-T as
required by paragraphs (a)(2) through (6) of Regulations
section 1.6050S-2. For more information about the
requirements to furnish a statement to each student, see
part M in the current General Instructions for Certain
Information Returns.
Truncating student’s TIN on payee statements.
Pursuant to Regulations section 301.6109-4, all filers of
Form 1098-T may truncate a student’s TIN (social security
number (SSN), individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or
employer identification number (EIN)) on payee
statements. Truncation is not allowed on any documents
the filer files with the IRS. A filer’s TIN may not be
truncated on any form. See part J in the current General
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
Student’s TIN and checkbox. Enter the student’s TIN,
as provided to you on Form W-9S, Request for Student’s
or Borrower’s Taxpayer Identification Number and
Certification, or other form. If you solicited the student’s
TIN in writing (Form W-9S or other form) for the current
year, check the box. Also check the box if you obtained
the student’s TIN in a prior year by making a solicitation in
writing (Form W-9S or other form) or you obtained the
student’s TIN in a prior year from his or her financial aid
application or other form and in either case have no
reason to believe the TIN previously obtained is incorrect.
Check the box if the institution is filing the Form 1098-T
with nothing in the field for the student’s TIN because the
institution has no record of a TIN, but only if you made a
written solicitation for the TIN on or before December 31
of the year for which you are filing the Form 1098-T. By
checking the box and filing Form 1098-T with the IRS (for
electronic filers), you certify under penalties of perjury that
you have in good faith complied with the standards in
Regulations section 1.6050S-1 governing the time and
manner of soliciting the TIN of the student. Filers who
transmit paper forms to the IRS will make such
certification by signing Form 1096 in conjunction with filing
the returns with the boxes checked in the fields
designated for the student’s identification number.
Student’s address. In the student’s address box of Form
1098-T, enter the student’s permanent address. That is,
enter the student’s home or other long-term address
where he or she can receive forwarded mail. You may use
a temporary address only if you do not know the
permanent address.
Information contact and service provider. You must
provide your name, address, and telephone number. In
addition, you may include information on a third-party
service provider who filed the form or who may answer
questions about the statement. Enter the service
provider’s information in the box below the student’s name
and address.

3

You must provide the telephone number for the
information contact at the institution. Generally,
CAUTION this is an administrative office or department. Do
not provide the institution’s general telephone number.

!

Account number. The account number is required if you
have multiple accounts for a recipient for whom you are
filing more than one Form 1098-T. Additionally, the IRS
encourages you to designate an account number for all
Forms 1098-T that you file. See part L in the current
General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Box 1. Payments Received for Qualified Tuition
and Related Expenses

Enter the total amount of payments received for qualified
tuition and related expenses from all sources during the
calendar year. The amount reported is the total amount of
payments received less any reimbursements or refunds
made during the calendar year that relate to the payments
received for qualified tuition and related expenses during
the same calendar year. The amount reported is not
reduced by scholarships and grants reported in box 5.
Include in this box the receipt of a payment of past-due
qualified tuition or related expenses from a previous
calendar year, but only if the educational institution
previously billed the student for such amount(s).

Box 2. Reserved

This box is reserved for future use.

Box 3. Reserved

This box is reserved for future use.

Box 4. Adjustments Made for a Prior Year
Payments received. Enter reimbursements or refunds of
qualified tuition and related expenses made in 2024 that
relate to payments received that were reported for any
prior year after 2002.
Amounts billed. Enter any reductions in charges made
for qualified tuition and related expenses made during the
calendar year that relate to amounts billed that were
reported for any prior year after 2002.
These requirements also apply to an adjustment made
in connection with a nonresident alien for which the
educational institution filed and furnished a Form 1098-T
for the prior year.

Box 5. Scholarships or Grants

Enter the total amount of any scholarships or grants that
you administered and processed during the calendar year
for the payment of the student’s costs of attendance.
Scholarships and grants generally include all payments

4

received from third parties (excluding family members and
loan proceeds). This includes payments received from
governmental and private entities such as the Department
of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, civic and
religious organizations, and nonprofit entities. However,
see Exceptions, earlier.
A scholarship or grant is administered and processed
by you if you receive payment of an amount, whether by
check, cash, electronic transfer, or other means, and such
payment is designated as a grant or a scholarship by the
payor, or the circumstances make it clear that the payment
is a grant or scholarship. A Pell Grant is an example of a
grant administered and processed by a college or
university in all cases.

Box 6. Adjustments to Scholarships or Grants
for a Prior Year

Enter the amount of any reduction to the amount of
scholarships or grants that were reported for any prior
year after 2002.

Box 7. Checkbox for Amounts for an Academic
Period Beginning in January Through March of
2025

Check this box if any payments received for qualified
tuition and related expenses reported for 2024 relate to an
academic period that begins in January through March of
2025.

Box 8. Check if at Least Half-Time Student

Check this box if the student was at least a half-time
student during any academic period that began in 2024. A
half-time student is a student enrolled for at least half the
full-time academic workload for the course of study the
student is pursuing. Your institution’s standard for a
half-time student work load must equal or exceed the
standards established by the Department of Education
under the Higher Education Act and set forth in 34 C.F.R.
section 668.2(b).

Box 9. Check if a Graduate Student

Check this box if the student was a graduate student. The
student is a graduate student if the student was enrolled in
a program or programs leading to a graduate-level
degree, graduate-level certificate, or other recognized
graduate-level educational credential.

Box 10. Insurance Contract Reimbursements or
Refunds

If you are an insurer, enter the total amount of
reimbursements or refunds of qualified tuition and related
expenses that you made to the student during 2024.

Instructions for Forms 1098-E and 1098-T (2024)

